.TH AUTOPSY 1 "MAR 2005" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
autopsy \- Autopsy Forensic Browser
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B autopsy [-c] [-C] [-d
.I evid_locker
.B ] [-i 
device filesystem mnt
.B ] [-p
.I port
.B ]
.I [addr]
.SH DESCRIPTION
By default, 
.B autopsy
starts the Autopsy Forensic Browser server on port 9999 and and accepts 
connections from the localhost.  If 
.I -p port
is given, then the server opens on that port and if 
.I addr
is given, then connections are only accepted from that host.
When the 
.I -i
argument is given, then autopsy goes into live analysis mode.

The arguments are as follows:
.IP "-c"
Force the program to use cookies even for localhost.
.IP "-C"
Force the program to not use cookies even for remote hosts.
.IP "-d evid_locker"
Directory where cases and hosts are stored.
This overrides the 
.B LOCKDIR 
value in 
.I conf.pl.
The path must be a full path (i.e. start with /).
.IP "-i device filesystem mnt"
Specify the information for the live analysis mode.  This can be specified
as many times as needed.  The 
.I device
field is for the raw file system device, the 
.I filesystem
field is for the file system type, and the
.I mnt
field is for the mounting point of the file system.  
.IP "-p port"
TCP port for server to listen on.
.IP addr
IP address or host name of where investigator is located.  
If localhost is used, then 'localhost' must be used in the URL.
If you use the actual hostname or IP, it will be rejected.
.PP
When started, the program will display a URL to paste into an
HTML browser.  The browser must support frames and forms.   The
Autopsy Forensic Browser will allow an investigator to analyze
images generated by
.BR dd(1)
for evidence.  The program allows the images to be analyzed by
browsing files, blocks, inodes, or by searching the blocks.
The program also generates Autopsy reports that include collection
time, investigators name, and MD5 hash values.
.SH VARIABLES
The following variables can be set in 
.I conf.pl. 

.I USE_STIMEOUT
.RS 
When set to 1 (default is 0), the server will exit after 
.B STIMEOUT
seconds of inactivity (default is 3600).  This setting is recommended if 
cookies are not used.
.RE
.I BASEDIR
.RS 
Directory where cases and forensic images are located.  
The images must have simple
names with only letters, numbers, '_', '-', and '.'.  (See FILES).
.RE
.I TSKDIR
.RS
Directory where The Sleuth Kit binaries are located.
.RE
.I NSRLDB
.RS
Location of the NIST National Software Reference Library (NSRL).
.RE
.I INSTALLDIR
.RS 
Directory where Autopsy was installed.
.RE
.I GREP_EXE
.RS
Location of 
.BR grep(1)
binary.
.RE
.I STRINGS_EXE
.RS
Location of 
.BR strings(1)
binary.
.RE
.SH FILES
.I Evidence Locker
.RS
The Evidence Locker is where all cases and hosts will be saved to.  It
is a directory that will have a directory for each case.  Each case
directory will have a directory for each host.  

.RE
.I <CASE_DIR>/case.aut
.RS
This file is the case configuration file for the case.  It contains the
description of the case and default subdirectories for the hosts.  

.RE
.I <CASE_DIR>/investigators.txt
.RS
This file contains the list of investigators that will use this case.  These
are used for logging only, not authentication.  

.RE
.I <HOST_DIR>/host.aut
.RS
This file is where the host configuration details are saved.  It
is similar to the 'fsmorgue' file from previous versions of Autopsy.
It has an entry for each file in the host and contains the host
description.


.RE
.I md5.txt
.RS
Some directories will have this file in it.  It contains MD5 values for 
important files in the directory.  This makes it easy to validate the
integrity of images.  

.SH EXAMPLE
# ./autopsy -p 8888 10.1.34.19
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dd (1),
.BR fls (1),
.BR ffind (1),
.BR ifind (1),
.BR grep (1),
.BR icat (1)
.BR md5 (1),
.BR strings (1),
.SH REQUIREMENTS
The Autopsy Forensic Browser requires
.B The Sleuth Kit 
<www.sleuthkit.org/sleuthkit>

.SH HISTORY
.BR "autopsy" " first appeared in " "Autopsy" " v1.0."
.SH LICENSE
This software is distributed under the GNU Public License.

.SH AUTHOR
Brian Carrier <carrier at sleuthkit dot org>

Send documentation updates to <doc-updates at sleuthkit dot org>
